and in production to first John.
First John is the longest of the Apostle John's three inspired letters.
John was likely in or near Ephesus when he wrote his letters in about 98 CE.
He also wrote his gospel account at about the same time.
John did not address his first letter to any individual but wrote it as a general letter to all Christians.
His purpose was to strengthen the faith of fellow Christians in the truths that God had revealed to the Christian congregation.
The letter addresses three main themes, the Antichrist, sin and love.
First John contains five chapters.
In chapter 1 John tells us that God is light and that Christians must walk in the light.
To walk in the light, we need to recognize that we are sinners and need forgiveness based on Christ's propitiatory sacrifice.
Chapter 2 warns us about antichrists.
Among other things, they claim that Jesus was not the Christ and that the Son of God had not come in the flesh.
Did you know?
More than three decades earlier, it was foretold that false teachers would bring in destructive sects and try to draw away the disciples after themselves.
John's writings show that this apostasy was well underway.
In chapter 3 John contrasts the children of God with the children of the devil.
The children of God love one another.
The children of the devil like Cain hate their brother.
The theme of love continues in chapter 4.
Here John reminds us that we cannot rightly profess to love God if we do not love our fellow Christians.
In the final chapter we read, this is what the love of God means that we observe His commandments.
Also, John assures us that God hears all our prayerful requests when these harmonize with His will.
As you read first John, note how we must reject apostates, how we can guard against the practice of sin,
and how we should cultivate love for our fellow subjects of God's kingdom.